README.md, before:

# Data Structures and Algorithms In C++

Implementations of **data structures** and **algorithms** using **C++** by *Junkang Huang*.


### pTime
A simple tool using `std::chrono` to measure how long a program runs. And you can set multiple checkpoints conveniently in a program.

### myPrint
Print vector in various mode to given ostream object.

### mySwap
Swap two elements in a vector.


### myHist
Draw histogram directly on terminal.


### myList
Class template implementation of linked list. 
But you cannot use iterator here. Use pointer to `myList<T>::node` instead.
Pay special attention to friend declaration and class template.

### myStack
Use `std::vector` to implement stack data structure.
### myQueue
Use `std::vector` would be much too easy. Instead, I use circular fundamental array to implement queue.


### myBinaryTreeNode
General binary tree node structure, with only copy and move constructors (no default constructor)

### infix2postfix
A function to convert an infix expression to postfix expression

### myExpressionTree
Expression Tree Implementation:
Using `myBinaryTreeNode` template and use `std::string` to instantiate it
In expression tree, leaf node contain operand strings and non-leaf node contain operators (in string).
Expression public routines include three expression notation: *prefix*, *infix*, *postfix*
By now, only support binary operators: +, -, *, /

### myBST
Binary search tree(BST) implementation, containing an inner node structure.

### myAVLTree
AVL Tree, a balanced type of binary search tree. With height recorded in each node and an additional balance routine.
Balance routine include single rotation and double rotation, which is critical for AVL tree.

### mySplayTree
Splay tree, from top down implementation. None recursive element reference.

### myTreeEvaluator
A test routine to evaluate performance of a tree template.
Template should support int type element, and tolerate repeat insertion.


### mySCHashTable
Seperate chaining hash table implementation.

### myProbingHashTable
Probing hash table implementation.


### myBinaryHeap
A minimum heap (priority queue) implementation.
Using `std::vector` to store values.

### myLeftistHeap
Leftist Heap implementation.
Right most path is the shortest path.
`merge()` function is vital.

### myBubbleSort
Bubble sort implementation.


### myInsertionSort
Insertion sort implementation.


### myShellSort
Shell sort implementation. 
Using Hibbard increment sequence.

### myHeapSort
Using heap to get the maximum element out one by one, then put them at the heap vector from back forward.
No extra space needed.


### myMergeSort
Merge sort implementation.
Using a common temperary std::vector to store temperary values.
Rather than creating one more vector each calling.


### myQuickSort
Classic quick sort implementation.
Using a cutoff strategy, for small size input, use insertion sort.
You are free to set the cutoff value.


### sortEval
A routine to evaluate performance of sort function.
Use `myHist()` to show result in histogram.



### myGraph
Including:<br>
`topSort()`: top sort algorithms<br>
`minPathUnweighted()`: Find the minimum unweighted distance from start vertices to each vertices.<br>
`minPathWeightedNegative()`:Find the minimum weighted distance from start vertex to each vertices<br>
`Dijkstra()`: Dijkstra algorithm implementation. Without heap optimization.<br>
`DijkstraNoCycle()`: Improved Dijkstra algorithm for noncycle graph<br>
`maxFlow()`: Maximum net flow algorithm.<br>
`Prim()`: Prim algorithm for minimum spanning tree problem.<br>

### Selection Problem

**Input:** 	N numbers (not sorted)

**Output:** 	the k-th largest number  of input 
Using `std::priority_queue`.

### myBraceChecker
A simple tools to check brace balance of a file. 
Using `std::stack`.

### myPostfixCalculator
Using `std::stack` to calculate a postfix expression which is inputed as a std::string.
### myCalculator
Using `std::stack` to translate a infix expression into corresponding postfix expression.
Then using `myPostfixCalculator()` to calculate the result.

Commit message:

Disjoint sets and Kruskal added.

README.md, after:

# Data Structures and Algorithms In C++

Implementations of **data structures** and **algorithms** using **C++** by *Junkang Huang*.


### pTime
A simple tool using `std::chrono` to measure how long a program runs. And you can set multiple checkpoints conveniently in a program.

### myPrint
Print vector in various mode to given ostream object.

### mySwap
Swap two elements in a vector.


### myHist
Draw histogram directly on terminal.


### myList
Class template implementation of linked list. 
But you cannot use iterator here. Use pointer to `myList<T>::node` instead.
Pay special attention to friend declaration and class template.

### myStack
Use `std::vector` to implement stack data structure.
### myQueue
Use `std::vector` would be much too easy. Instead, I use circular fundamental array to implement queue.


### myBinaryTreeNode
General binary tree node structure, with only copy and move constructors (no default constructor)

### infix2postfix
A function to convert an infix expression to postfix expression

### myExpressionTree
Expression Tree Implementation:
Using `myBinaryTreeNode` template and use `std::string` to instantiate it
In expression tree, leaf node contain operand strings and non-leaf node contain operators (in string).
Expression public routines include three expression notation: *prefix*, *infix*, *postfix*
By now, only support binary operators: +, -, *, /

### myBST
Binary search tree(BST) implementation, containing an inner node structure.

### myAVLTree
AVL Tree, a balanced type of binary search tree. With height recorded in each node and an additional balance routine.
Balance routine include single rotation and double rotation, which is critical for AVL tree.

### mySplayTree
Splay tree, from top down implementation. None recursive element reference.

### myTreeEvaluator
A test routine to evaluate performance of a tree template.
Template should support int type element, and tolerate repeat insertion.


### mySCHashTable
Seperate chaining hash table implementation.

### myProbingHashTable
Probing hash table implementation.


### myBinaryHeap
A minimum heap (priority queue) implementation.
Using `std::vector` to store values.

### myLeftistHeap
Leftist Heap implementation.
Right most path is the shortest path.
`merge()` function is vital.

### myBubbleSort
Bubble sort implementation.


### myInsertionSort
Insertion sort implementation.


### myShellSort
Shell sort implementation. 
Using Hibbard increment sequence.

### myHeapSort
Using heap to get the maximum element out one by one, then put them at the heap vector from back forward.
No extra space needed.


### myMergeSort
Merge sort implementation.
Using a common temperary std::vector to store temperary values.
Rather than creating one more vector each calling.


### myQuickSort
Classic quick sort implementation.
Using a cutoff strategy, for small size input, use insertion sort.
You are free to set the cutoff value.


### sortEval
A routine to evaluate performance of sort function.
Use `myHist()` to show result in histogram.


### myDisjSets
Disjoint set class. An compact and nice implementation of `union` and `find` function.<br>
Used in Kruskal algorithm.


### myGraph
Including:<br>
`topSort()`: top sort algorithms<br>
`minPathUnweighted()`: Find the minimum unweighted distance from start vertices to each vertices.<br>
`minPathWeightedNegative()`:Find the minimum weighted distance from start vertex to each vertices<br>
`Dijkstra()`: Dijkstra algorithm implementation. Without heap optimization.<br>
`DijkstraNoCycle()`: Improved Dijkstra algorithm for noncycle graph<br>
`maxFlow()`: Maximum net flow algorithm.<br>
`Prim()`: Prim algorithm for minimum spanning tree problem.<br>
`Kruskal()`: Kruskal algorithm.<br>

### Selection Problem

**Input:** 	N numbers (not sorted)

**Output:** 	the k-th largest number  of input 
Using `std::priority_queue`.

### myBraceChecker
A simple tools to check brace balance of a file. 
Using `std::stack`.

### myPostfixCalculator
Using `std::stack` to calculate a postfix expression which is inputed as a std::string.
### myCalculator
Using `std::stack` to translate a infix expression into corresponding postfix expression.
Then using `myPostfixCalculator()` to calculate the result.
